Adding more Webots Simulation Tutorials (#3357)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Advanced/Simulators/Webots/Installation-MacOS.rst

Installation (macOS)

> ======================================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installation (macOS)
====================
```

**Goal:** Install the ``webots_ros2`` package and run simulation examples on macOS.

**Tutorial level:** Advanced

**Time:** 10 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

The ``webots_ros2`` package provides an interface between ROS 2 and Webots.

> It includes several sub-packages, including ``webots_ros2_driver``, which allows to start Webots and communicate with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It includes several sub-packages, including ``webots_ros2_driver``, which allows you to start Webots and communicate with it.
```

Other sub-packages are mainly examples that show multiple possible implementations using the interface.
In this tutorial, you are going to install the package and learn how to run one of these examples.

Prerequisites
-------------

It is recommended to understand basic ROS principles covered in the beginner :doc:`../../../../Tutorials`.
In particular, :doc:`../../../Beginner-Client-Libraries/Creating-A-Workspace/Creating-A-Workspace` and :doc:`../../../Beginner-Client-Libraries/Creating-Your-First-ROS2-Package` are useful prerequisites.

It is necessary to install Webots natively on the mac in order to use the ``webots_ros2`` package in the virtual machine as explained below.
You can follow the `installation procedure <https://cyberbotics.com/doc/guide/installation-procedure>`_ or `build it from sources <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots/wiki/macOS-installation/>`_.

Tasks
-----

> On macOS, a solution based on UTM virtual machines allows to improve the user experience with ROS 2 compared to native macOS installation, as it allows to run ROS in a Linux environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On macOS, a solution based on UTM virtual machines allows for an improved user experience with ROS 2 compared to native macOS installation, as it allows to run ROS in a Linux environment.
```

However, Webots should be installed natively on macOS and it will be able to communicate with the ROS nodes running in the Virtual Machine (VM).
This solution allows for native 3D hardware acceleration for Webots.

> The VM is responsible to run all the ROS part (including RViz) and connects to the host machine through TCP connection to start Webots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The VM is runs all the ROS part (including RViz) and connects to the host machine through TCP to start Webots.
```

A shared folder allows the script to transfer the world and other resource files from the VM to macOS where Webots is running.

> The following steps explain how to create the VM image with the installation of the ``webots_ros2`` released package. It is also possible to install it from sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps explain how to create the VM image with the installation of the ``webots_ros2`` released package.
It is also possible to install it from sources.
```

Be sure to download the image corresponding to your CPU architecture.

In the UTM software:

* Create a new image and choose ``Virtualize`` option.
* Select the ISO image you have downloaded in the ``Boot ISO Image`` field.
* Leave all hardware settings at default (including hardware acceleration disabled).
* In the ``Shared Directory`` window, select a folder that will be used by ``webots_ros2`` to transfer all the Webots assets to the host.
  In this example, the selected folder is ``/Users/username/shared``.
* Leave all the remaining parameters as default.
* Start the VM.
  Note that you can select another shared folder each time you start the VM.
* During the first launch of the VM, install Ubuntu and choose a username for your account. In this example, the username is ``ubuntu``.
* Once Ubuntu is installed, close the VM, remove the iso image from the CD/DVD field and restart the VM.

2 Configure the VM
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In this section, ROS 2 is installed in the VM and the shared folder is configured.

> The following instruction and command are all run inside the VM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following instructions and commands are all run inside the VM.
```

* Open a terminal in the started VM and install the ROS 2 distribution you need by following the instructions in :doc:`../../../../Installation/Ubuntu-Install-Debians`:

> * Create a folder in the VM to use as shared folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a folder in the VM to use as a shared folder.
```

* To automatically mount this folder to the host when starting the VM, add the following line to ``/etc/fstab``.
  Don't forget to modify the path to the shared folder, if it is different in your case.

  .. code-block:: console

      share	/home/ubuntu/shared	9p	trans=virtio,version=9p2000.L,rw,_netdev,nofail	0	0

* The environment variable ``WEBOTS_SHARED_FOLDER`` must always be set in order for the package to work properly in the VM.
  This variable specifies the location of the shared folder that is used to exchange data between the host machine and the virtual machine (VM) to the ``webots_ros2`` package.
  The value to use for this variable should be in the format of ``<host shared folder>:<VM shared folder>``, where ``<host shared folder>`` is the path to the shared folder on the host machine and ``<VM shared folder>`` is the path to the same shared folder on the VM.

  In this example:

  .. code-block:: console

    export WEBOTS_SHARED_FOLDER=/Users/username/shared:/home/ubuntu/shared

  You can add this command line to the ``~/.bashrc`` file to automatically set this environment variable when starting a new terminal.

3 Install ``webots_ros2``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> You can then either install ``webots_ros2`` from the official released package, or install it from the last up-to-date sources committed on `Github <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either install ``webots_ros2`` from the official released package, or install it from the latest up-to-date sources from `Github <https://github.com/cyberbotics/webots_ros2>`_.
```
